DetGen paper - New outline


Benefits over existing datasets 


1. Fidelity to real traffic
	1. Real traffic, consistent (not invalid after Cordero et al.)
	2. Structural richness on packet level (in contrast to )
		Induced due to the different levels at which traffic variation is introduced
	3. Temporal activity levels? (actually not something we improve)
			We can look at test for realism of distributions (IP discovery, etc)

2. Ground truth labels through containerisation
	1. Ground truth for attack behaviour, able to label 100% of the generated events to specific activities
	2. Labels for different types of behaviour, reproducable
		useful for evaluation of model failures, what kind of behaviours cause failure
			applies to a large range of models
		also useful for evaluation of privacy infiltration methods, more niche
	3. Ground truth for label matching between traffic and program logs/sys logs
		useful for models that try to correlate events for detection
			this is more niche, but potentially because of the lack of data

3. Extensive capture
	1. Packet availability
	2. Syslogs and for multiple scenarios program logs
	3. Potentially host logs? Depends if we want to cater to cloud computing applicability


4. Better for ML-based methods
	1. Flexibility 
		"The models should allow researchers to generate different classes of data, such as augmenting the amount of data representing sparse events, or choose different topology"
	2. Automisation of variable datasets through randomisation, automatically create structurally different datasets, but faithful to realism
		Especially novel in terms of network topologies, should emphasise this in use-cases
	3. Structural richness 
			allows for learning deeper and more generalisable knowledge in models, less prone to overfitting
	2. Scalability
		"Train on as much data as necessary"


•	Finish topology extension
o	No focus on multi-step attacks yet
Ideal properties of a Data-generation framework
•	Small-scale realism
o	Packets sequences in a connection should represent actual interactions and have corresponding metadata properties, inter arrival times etc. 
	Important for intrusion detection models
o	Temporal 


Realism-experiments/proofs
•	Measure structural richness of
o	Also measure divergence across same activities (same activity and same port)
o	Demonstrate benefit of structural richness
	Closer to reality
	Learned model larger and detection problem is closer to reality
	Demonstrate this by learning a model with less

Use-cases

•	Show utility of ground-truth labels
	o	Build two intrusion detection models: One made of flow sequences, the other of packet sequences
	o	Analyse false-positives, show what activity and what traffic congestion they correspond to
	o	Build multiple datasets with excessive amounts of one traffic type that push model limits, analyse the performance
	- Demonstrate utility of ground truth labels and mapping between syscalls and traffic, and program logs
		- experiment 

•	Show utility of flexible topology
	o	Find useful model, show that training on one topology leads to overfitting
	o	Show that training on multiple datasets prevents overfitting
			Or that detection results can differ vastly
•	Measure effect of new traffic types on IDS performance
 	- 







